[Transcript missing]
If you weren't intending to attend this,
you're probably in the wrong room.
So what I'm going to do is go
through a number of aspects of sync.
First I'm going to talk
about what's new overall.
Then I'm going to go through
sync services for those of
you who are new to sync,
because I imagine there are
quite a few people who have come
for the iPhone and haven't used
sync services on the Mac before.
Then we'll talk a little bit about what
we had in mind for Snow Leopard and
what kind of things we've done there.
What new and improved
features have been added,
new APIs.
And then Bruce is going to come
on stage and talk about some
of the advanced sync stuff.
So for those of you who are experts,
who've done this before,
who have already written sync
client or are developing one,
that should be useful for you.
What's new outside of Snow Leopard?
A little bit of history.
So back in 10.3,
we had this thing called iSync that
would let you sync to your phone to .Mac,
and it would sync things like
address books and contacts.
So it was kind of restricted to that,
and it was all Apple provided.
In 10.4, the big thing that we did is
add the ability for you to
write your own sync client.
So that gave you access to our
generic extensible sync engine,
public API.
We had data classes built into
OS X that would sync to the phone,
that would sync to .Mac,
that could sync to other applications.
And you got a bunch of
benefits just by leveraging
the framework that we supplied.
Now in 10.5, we added some additional
data classes like Dashboard,
Preferences, Doc Syncing, Mail Notes,
and additionally some other
applications that sync.
And then along came the iPhone.
So, since this time last year,
a number of things have gone on.
One of the things that we talked
about at WWDC 2007 was a thing
called the .Mac transition.
That was where .Mac had been
syncing some data types with an
old mechanism that was sort of
backwards compatible with Panther,
and we were switching
everybody over to the new one,
which was more performant
and more reliable.
We went ahead and did that,
and that was pretty transparent
for everybody concerned.
Certainly none of the
developers had to do anything,
so that was the main goal of that.
In addition, related to iPhone sync,
we added Yahoo!
Contact Sync,
so that was available in 10.4 for
iPhone and iPod Touch customers
and available on Windows.
And in 10.5,
we made it available for everybody.
And in 10.5.3,
we introduced Google Contact Sync.
We've been working with Google on that.
And that will be coming out
shortly on Windows as well.
And in Snow Leopard,
it's going to be available for everybody.
So what you can see
is the sync ecosystem,
as we call it, has moved along over time,
and we continue to evolve this.
So now, of course,
.Mac has become MobileMe.
We've got Microsoft Exchange in
the picture,
syncing to the iPhone.
And now we've got Windows in the picture
because we've got Windows syncing to
the iPhone and we've got Windows now
syncing to MobileMe as well.
So the whole sync environment
is getting kind of complicated.
So again, just to summarize, MobileMe,
same sync capabilities for
the Mac as you had before,
so all the same data classes
are going to be syncing.
They've added new online applications,
which give you all this great
friendly access to your data online.
With Windows,
the addition of MobileMe for
Windows gives you sync between Mac and
Windows and between Windows and Windows.
And there's also over
the air for the iPhone.
And the way that works
is that your desktop,
be it a Mac or Windows,
is syncing up to MobileMe,
which is syncing down to the iPhone.
So there's some other things that we
haven't really got time to cover or we
haven't got around to thinking about.
With iPhone Sync,
you get Bookmarks syncing, Contacts,
Calendars, it's all built in.
When the next release of the iPhone
software comes out on July 11th,
Tethered is built in,
Over the Air will be
built in with MobileMe.
One thing to be aware of is that
you'll have to choose one or the other.
And that's to avoid what we call
sync loops or triangle problems.
Some of the existing sync developers
will be familiar with that.
As regards third party
iPhone application sync,
if you're writing a third party
application for the iPhone,
you might have been wondering whether
you can sync it with your desktop.
And at present, we don't have any API on
the phone for sync.
So the current suggested solution is that
you have some sort of server running,
and you sync directly to that server.
So, what I wanted to do now was to just
very quickly go through a summary of
what sync services is for those of you
who are completely unfamiliar with it.
We weren't given a lot of time for this.
We've only got one session.
So, I'm going to have to be very,
very quick.
Any questions?
Okay, no, right.
So that was actually the presentation
from 2005 in its entirety,
which was a great
coverage of sync services,
but it was a little bit condensed.
So I will actually
really go through this.
So the big picture of sync is all
of these cooperating applications
and devices exchanging data.
So a few concepts and terminology
so that at least when we get on
to the later part of the talk,
some of it will be more familiar
to people than it is right now.
So we're syncing all this data around.
What's going on?
What's happening to it?
Well, first of all,
when you give us this data
as part of the sync process,
we store it in something
that we call the truth.
So we're keeping a copy of any
data that's provided to us.
That enables us to do differencing
when people send us new changes
and to see what's changed since
the last time they synced with us.
Do you as the developer, or we as Apple,
describe that data?
Well,
we use an entity relationship model.
And so you can think of the schema as
sort of sitting between the application
and the sync engine and its truth data.
And the schema sort of represents
what we put in the truth.
So this is a sort of overall picture
of what a schema would look like.
The schema consists of
one or more data classes,
which is sort of a
collection of entities,
and entities which represent the
kind of thing that you want to sync,
and they have attributes and
properties and relationships.
So, the sync schema is describing
what you have to the sync engine.
An entity is an element of the
data model that you're describing.
The data class is a
collection of those entities.
We have relationships.
So, for example,
if you have contacts and phone numbers,
you can have a relationship
between those two things.
And then we have properties,
which are things like name, phone number,
type of phone number,
start date of an event,
something like that.
So this is a simple example.
Say you have a piece of data
that you want to describe,
and it has two things:
the name of the event and
the start of the event.
What your schema contains
is the name of the property,
which is name, and the type.
And again, start as a date,
because it's a date of a vacation.
Now this is what a more
complicated schema would look like.
These are the sort of the entities
which might exist in the context schema.
As you can see, we have email addresses,
street addresses,
because any particular contact
can have more than one.
So those represent relationships
to other entities which
contain those email addresses.
Contacts can also be in groups,
another relationship,
so you can group these things together.
Now,
that part covered describing the entirety
of the sync data that was available
for any particular kind of data class.
But how do you describe
what your client does?
Well, we use a thing called
a client description.
It's a property list that you store in
the file system and you register with
us when you first start up your client.
So it kind of syncs between,
it kind of sits between the
sync client and the sync engine,
but it's more associated
with the sync client.
So again, the sync schema is describing
what data is for the sync engine,
whereas the client description
is kind of a bridge between the
application and the sync engine.
The sync schema is describing the
entirety of what you can possibly sync.
Whereas the Sync Client
Description is again,
it's specific to your client,
what you want to sync.
So that may well be a subset.
You may not want to sync the
middle name of a contact,
so your device doesn't
support middle names.
Now, in your application,
you have some data
Which is in, I don't know what format.
It could be in SQLite,
it could be in some
proprietary database format,
it could be just written
out in property list format,
something like that.
Sync Services uses a very generic
format in order to represent data.
We just use dictionaries
essentially as a record format,
and we use key value kind of coding.
So, one of the main things that your
sync client will have to do as it
interacts with the Sync Services API is
convert the data to and from your
proprietary format back into sync
services format and the converse.
Okay, so we figured out we've got
to translate our data around,
we've got to describe,
we've got our client description,
we've got our schema.
Now we're ready to go.
What do we do?
Does it actually start to sync?
Well, a sync session represents a
transaction with the sync engine.
It consists of five phases.
So at the beginning we start the session.
Now the session can be started either
by the client itself requesting a sync,
or it can be actually started by
the sync engine telling your client
that a sync is about to start
and would it like to participate.
So for clients like .Mac,
when .Mac syncs, and I probably should
use the term mobile me,
when mobile me syncs,
It's usually syncing a whole
bunch of different things,
and quite often it's going to
invite all sorts of applications.
So on a basic Mac OS X system,
we're going to start
up Address Book Sync,
Calendar Sync, Safari Sync, Mail Sync,
etc.
So once your session started,
from the client's perspective,
what you do next is that you
have to decide what kind of
sync session it's going to be,
what you're going to do.
There are different kinds of sessions
that you can perform depending upon the
state of both the client and the server.
So these are the basic four listed.
I don't want to go into these in
too much detail because Bruce is
going to cover those later.
But essentially,
you need to know what you want to do,
and the sync server,
the sync engine might override what
you think you're going to do and
tell you to do something different.
And this basically boils down to whether
you send things that have changed
as far as your client is concerned,
or whether you send the whole data.
So the next phase is the push phase.
That part of the process,
and this represents these five states,
basically represent a finite state
machine that the sync engine is managing.
So then the push phase,
it's your client's responsibility to
provide the data to the sync engine.
So graphically speaking,
it looks something like this.
You've got your data in a database,
and over it goes to the sync engine.
Now that's when we get involved.
We then look at the
changes that you've made.
These might be updates or adds, deletes.
You may have added
something to a relationship,
you may have removed something,
you may have reordered things, etc.
So the sync engine looks at those,
makes sure that you're
not breaking any rules,
and then propagates those into the truth.
Any of the resulting changes
come back into the sync engine,
ready for the next
phase of the operation,
where the client then pulls the
changes from the sync engine.
At the end of all that,
we'll either finish the
session and we're good to go,
or you might cancel the session,
or the sync engine might cancel
the session if something was amiss.
And we can actually cancel the
session in most of those different
phases for some reason or another.
If there's a runtime exception
or something serious like that,
that will usually cause
the session to be canceled.
In which case, the transaction didn't
happen and everybody goes
back to where they started.
At the end of the sync session,
the idea is that your application
data is now looking the same as what
was in the truth and vice versa.
So everybody's in sync.
So that's the five phases.
I'm assuming some of you
are beginners with sync.
What's the best way to get
started in this endeavor?
Well, if you're really new to sync,
you might well be new
to Cocoa programming and
Mac OS X development,
and you might be writing
a new application,
and you might be thinking about
using Core Data for that application,
because it's a kind of logical
consequence of wanting to store stuff.
If you're in that category or
you already have an existing
application with Core Data and
you want to sync that data around,
well, we have this technology
called Core Data Sync,
and that is very straightforward.
You simply mod--you annotate your--
Your Core Data model in Xcode.
Tell it which properties you want to sync
and which relationships you want to sync.
And basically we'll go off and
deal with most of the hard work,
track the changes, etc.
So this is great because it minimizes
the amount of code you need to
write and minimizes the amount
of testing you need to go through.
Underneath we have some
other additional things.
We're making sure that you don't,
the changes that your application makes
doesn't result in you syncing every time.
There's a bit of throttling heuristic.
And I wanted to note that the
one caveat with this is that
some of the existing schemas,
because of the way they're set up,
can't be synced like this.
So this is primarily for your application
data that's custom to your application.
So as I said, all you need to do,
annotate the Core Data schema,
add a few lines of code,
It looks something like this.
So the registration part,
referring back to what I was
talking about in the intro,
registration is when you basically
say this is the schema I'm interested
in and this is my client description.
This is a bit of Core Data magic.
It says, I want to track sync changes.
And this is how you start a sync.
And that's pretty much it.
So, very little code involved.
Some people say, "Well,
Core Data is way too complicated.
I don't want to do Core Data."
Well, we now have Preferences Sync.
In Leopard,
we introduced a mechanism which if
the user just turns on Preferences
Sync in System Preferences,
all their preferences for all of their
applications pretty much automatically
get synced over MobileMe back
and forth between Mac and Mac.
So that's kind of interesting because
you basically don't need to do
anything to your application as long
as you're using NS user defaults or
CFPreferences to store your preferences,
we're going to sync them on your behalf.
So for some applications,
if you don't have a large amount
of data for yourself or you,
you know,
literally your application is fairly
simple and most of what you want
to sync is stored in preferences,
then this will do it for you.
And there are a couple of
exclusions that we do automatically.
We don't sync by host preferences
because they are meant to be
specific to a host machine.
We filter out some things
that change too rapidly.
And we have a built-in heuristic, again,
to throttle syncing
for those applications.
applications that change your
given preference too frequently.
But that's great.
So that, for some people,
that just may give you
your sync for free.
Then there are some more
complicated clients.
And specifically,
these are the ones where
Core Data Sync isn't going to cut it
because you want to sync Contacts,
Calendar and Bookmarks,
something like that.
So this can get complicated.
Sync is a highly cooperative endeavor.
You know, your application,
when it starts syncing with
some other application,
you're basically saying,
"If that guy decides
to delete this record,
then I have to trust him and I have
to delete mine." And vice versa.
So you have to bear that in mind
when you're writing a sync client,
that you're inherently going to
start trusting other applications
to do the right thing.
Not the least of trusting
us to do the right thing.
So the first thing to think
about is start simple.
We don't want Sync Cone to
be the entirety of your app.
We're trying to make this
as simple as possible.
So we provide this class
called iSyncSessionDriver,
which does most of what a sync client
needs to do in a sort of packaged manner.
It handles the control flow for you,
that whole phase diagram thing.
You don't really have to worry about
the pull and the push and the mingle,
etc.
And for 90% of applications,
that's probably fine.
And basically,
the only thing you need to worry about
is that whole data transformation thing.
You know, I've got my data here,
I need to put it in sync records
and convert it back and forth.
You also need to figure out
How you're going to describe your schema.
That again can get kind of complicated,
so Bruce will talk a little bit
about the details of what's involved
in thinking about a schema and
what we call identity properties.
So, okay, so we tried to persuade you
to use iSync Session Driver,
but no, that's, no,
you've got other things to do.
You want something a
bit more complicated,
a bit more meaty.
So, why would you not want to
use iSync Session Driver?
Well, you may want a little bit more
control over how things work.
That whole push-pull phase thing,
you know,
you may be talking to a remote server,
you may be doing some other things,
but you need a little bit
more fine-grained control
over what goes on there.
So, in that case, you may want to use
our more complete API,
which is available,
where you get involved and
you have to handle the control
flow and the phases as well.
The other reason for doing
that is that you may want 10.4
compatibility because iSync Session
Driver was only introduced in 10.5.
So that's it.
Okay, so what's new in Snow Leopard 10.6?
We have a few things going on.
The focus for Snow Leopard for us is
making life better for the end user.
Improving performance,
which of course is also, in principle,
making things better for the end user.
So we've got a couple of subcategories:
Usability and Resilience.
So what are the complaints
that we get with syncing,
which again,
if you're completely fresh to syncing,
you probably won't be aware of it,
but some of those veterans in
the crowd will know about this.
We have built-in checks so that
if a large number of changes come
through or we detect a conflict,
we'll put up a panel
and we'll ask the user,
you know, which,
whether they want to accept
a large number of changes.
Or if it's a conflict,
which version of the records that
are conflicting do they want to use?
But there have been a few problems
with that in the past because
sometimes we've put up conflicts
where the user can't really tell the
difference between the two sides.
And for the data change alert,
when we say, "Hey,
you've got 100 contacts
that are being deleted."
We're showing things
which aren't relevant.
So those have been trimmed away,
and we're trying to make sure
that this is streamlined and only
appearing when absolutely necessary
and providing the user with
completely relevant information.
I see there are some people
who have experience with this.
Interesting.
And I might want to point out on that.
There are things that we
can do for our schemas,
so for things that
Apple is responsible for,
like contacts and calendars, et cetera.
We can make those improvements.
But if you're a developer and
you've added schema extensions,
for example,
or you have your own schema and
your own data that you're syncing,
it's important for you to think about
these things and about what you want
to present to the user and try and make
sure that that is... any dialogue that
does appear is going to make sense.
So the other thing that we've done is
focused a little bit on resilience.
We've refactored the sync service so
the parts of the process of syncing
run in a completely separate process.
So that sort of bulletproofed
the whole system and generally
makes performance better.
We've made a number of fixes
to filtering both in 10.5
updates and in Snow Leathern.
We fixed some thread safety
issues that we discovered after
a bit of testing on 8-way Xeons,
which was nice.
And we've been doing some work to make
the Apple sync clients more bulletproof.
As I said, the whole endeavor of
sync is very cooperative.
So you basically have to,
when you're writing a client,
you have to accept what you're
given and be fairly polite about
what you give other people.
It's kind of like the Internet,
but different.
So the other things that we're focusing
on for Snow Leopard is performance.
And this is performance
in sort of two ways.
One aspect of performance is we want your
We want the sync to be
performant for the user,
both from the perspective of not
using much CPU and memory and disk
I/O on the system that they're using,
but also from the perspective
of they change something
and something else happens.
So, partly prompted by the
integration with MobileMe,
we're looking to make trickle syncing,
which basically means
I make a change in an app,
it immediately syncs it to the
sync engine on the desktop,
and that will immediately
get synced with MobileMe.
So the idea is going to be that,
you know,
literally if somebody makes a change,
ping, it goes up to ., up to MobileMe,
and ping, it's on your iPhone.
The other things we focused
on are many folks have noticed
that with .max syncing,
mobile me syncing,
we've now got a large number of
data classes for the user to sync
and so if you -- I don't know how
many people have actually done
this but if you're like me and you
turn them all on and you do a sync,
it can take quite a while to
work through each one of them.
So we've -- we're working
towards pipelining all of
those network operations.
So the whole thing is going to be much,
much faster.
And of course,
short cutting anything where
there's nothing actually to sync.
Now, going back to the focus on
performance again as regards
user perception on the desktop,
we've split the truth store out.
So up until, you know,
in 10.5 and in 10.4,
we had the truth database,
and it literally contained all
the data that you had in it
for every single data class.
And there were some occasions where
we would end up having to sort of
touch a bunch of records that were
irrelevant to any particular operation.
So what we've done is we've
split these things out,
so we've now got sort of contacts
over here and calendars over
here and bookmarks over here,
etc.
And that's streamlined the
whole process so we can...
We could do certain operations
and we will only ever touch
records that are relevant.
So that just reduces
memory footprint primarily.
We're also introducing
a custom NSString class.
This should be entirely
transparent to you guys.
But that basically lets us do
quicker comparisons of identity.
[Transcript missing]
We've also added some logic that's
going to short circuit some syncs,
so where the client doesn't
actually have anything to do,
if the sync engine decides that
it doesn't have anything to do,
we can make the whole
process go a little quicker.
And I mentioned this before,
we've refactored the sync server.
So one of the...
One of the downstream effects of this is
that because we've refactored the sync
server and we've split up the truth store
into different truth types data classes,
we have the potential to actually
start running syncs in parallel.
So if you have a client that syncs
more than one particular data class,
and of course on our side an
example would be MobileMe,
we could actually start
running those in parallel.
And that for the user would result
in a much shorter time spent syncing.
So other Snow Leopard news, I wanted to,
you know, the whole conference has been
emphasizing the iPhone greatly,
but I did want to mention that, you know,
we have iSync Plugin Maker.
That's a developer tool which is used by
companies like Sony Ericsson and Nokia,
and they can develop plug-ins for
iSync which allow pretty much any sync
ML-based phone to sync with the Mac.
And it's been updated for Snow Leopard.
There'll be more info available in
the lab session this afternoon if
anybody's interested in hearing about it.
So, harm sync is going to be
no more in Snow Leopard.
It's PowerPC, it's CFM,
it hasn't been updated
in rather a long time.
We'd love Palm to jump in and
write a Sync Services client.
But for the moment, so we're going to be
removing it in Snow Leopard,
and we recommend existing Sync
Services solutions for Palm right now.
So that's it for Snow Leopard.
So what I'm going to do
now is invite Bruce Niloo,
who's our tech lead for
sync services up on stage.
And he's going to go through
some advanced sync topics for
all you guys who are experts.
And everybody's an expert now
because I've covered it all.
Thanks.
I'm Bruce Niloo.
I'm the current tech
lead for Sync Services,
probably not the last.
I'm glad that Andy left me a lot
of time to go over this topic.
A little bit of a difference
between my talk and Andy's.
There's not going to be much graphics,
no short movies to make up for that.
I'm going to kind of share some
bad puns with you about sync.
And it's kind of hard to work in sync
services and not come up with bad puns.
It's kind of a sport.
I also want to talk about
something very important.
There's a little bit of
contention about how you spell
the word sync for sync services.
Well, a former tech lead of sync
services put it quite aptly.
There's no I in team and
there's no H in sync.
Okay.
So now without further ado,
let's get to the
The topics.
As Andy said,
the primary focus for Snow Leopard
is going to be resilience,
performance, and usability improvements.
But we have made some
API changes as well,
and I'm going to quickly go over them.
They're fairly minor.
And then we're going to sync
about some things together.
And in particular,
I basically want to share with you
some of the aspects of sync that
are worth understanding a bit before
you go and write a sync client.
Mm-hmm
So, some of our changes in the
API are really declarative changes
regarding new keys that we're
going to support in the schema.
As Andy has already talked about,
a schema is how you define to sync
services what your application
is interested in syncing.
It defines the structure, the properties,
the types, and so forth.
We've added a new key for specifying
a different kind of identity property,
which we're calling a
compound identity property,
and I'll get into that
in more detail in a bit.
To kind of support usability issues
where conflicts perhaps appear
when you don't want them to appear,
we've added another key where you can
declare that certain properties should be
ignored for the purposes of a conflict.
We've added a new container
type called a set,
which has the semantics
one might expect of a set,
such as no duplicates and the like.
And this is something we
actually did in Leopard,
but we're going to kind of emphasize
this and slowly get rid of it.
Strongly ordered relationships,
for those of you who know what that is,
was a great idea,
but there were all kinds of
difficulties associated with it.
Not only that, but there were also some
problems associated with it.
Not the least of which,
there was no really good UI that we
could come up with reasonably for showing
what a conflict was in a relationship
that had lots and lots of members.
So that's now a no-op,
which basically means it's going
to devolve into being the same
as a weakly ordered relationship.
Ping is now API for
some of our developers.
They already know what this is all about.
Some sync clients actually
take a long time to sync.
Maybe they're talking
to a really slow device.
Maybe they're talking to
a server up in the cloud.
And they, for control reasons,
they actually need to
start the sync session,
then do their business with
their own backing store.
Sometimes, if this takes too long a time,
Sync Services says, you know what,
I'm going to throw this client out
of this particular sync session.
And sometimes that's not what you want.
This is a way to tell the
sync server that you're still
actually interested in syncing.
It's just taking you longer than
we might hope it would take you.
Finally,
we're going to improve filtering.
This isn't API so much.
It is a bit because up until now,
you've had to really go through
contortions to do filtering right.
This is kind of personal to me,
and in Snow Leopard,
filtering is going to be a lot
simpler and actually do what you
expect it to do most of the time.
So let's go into the API changes a bit.
The compound identity properties
is just a new entry that
you put in the schema plist.
It's an array of arrays.
Currently, identity properties is just
an array of property names.
Now you can specify a kind of
a preferred ordering of those.
And again, I'm going to go into that
in more detail in a bit.
Ignore conflicts, same deal.
You can type a particular
kind of attribute,
say a UUID, that really makes no sense
to present to the user.
You can have two GUIDs popping
up in the conflict resolver,
and the end user is going to have
no idea what to do about that.
You can now say,
"Don't show that for the purposes of
conflict." And what that means is,
we're going to choose one of them,
and your application should be resilient
to the fact that the UUID might
actually change out from under you.
This is something your
client needed to be anyway.
It's just that now we're taking
the user out of the business
of knowing what's going on.
Okay, improved filtering.
So we had some issues with
filtering in the past.
In particular,
you could have relationships
which would refer to objects that
you thought you had filtered out.
Well,
that's probably not a good thing to do.
Relational integrity rules like cascade,
delete, required relationships kind of
didn't work the way you might
expect them to with filtering.
And so to work around that,
clients had to actually
filter effectively all of the
-- all of the entities that
were related to one another,
even though really all
they wanted to do was say,
"If a contact isn't in a specific group
or an event isn't in a specific calendar,
I'm not interested."
Now you'll be able to do that.
Andy wanted me to emphasize
that sync is cooperative.
This is kind of a tautology.
Andy spoke a lot about
sync being an ecosystem.
And it is.
There's a bunch of different clients,
some of which can really make your day
pretty miserable when they decide to
delete all the records that you rely on.
So we actually try to make an effort
to prevent this from happening.
We will raise exceptions of sundry sorts
to your clients if they push in things
that don't coincide with the schema.
This is kind of why it's very important
that when you're defining your schema,
you type it appropriately and so forth.
So we will raise an exception if you try
to push in a property of the wrong type.
If your relationships are incorrect
in the sense that you're pushing in a
reference to an object of a wrong type.
However, what we don't do,
and this is a lack,
is we don't do any semantic checking.
So, for example,
you might push in a start date
and an end date for an event,
and the end date might be
earlier than the start date.
And maybe you're going to actually,
your client or your application
is going to be a little bit
slower than the start date.
So you're going to want
to take the difference to
figure out the interval here.
It's going to come up to be a negative
number and maybe you're going to crash.
Well, since it is a cooperative endeavor,
this is why you need to be defensive
about those types of things.
Because some clients just are not going
to interpret these fields necessarily
the way you expect them to be.
Kind of in this line,
I wanted to share a little bit
with you why we don't promote
as API pushing the truth.
Basically, you know from .Mac if you've
ever synced with or MobileMe,
if you've ever synced with MobileBe,
you can tell MobileMe to
reset your contacts,
your calendars, or any data class from
MobileMe onto your computer.
We provide the capability in
Sync Services to extend your
entities with new property types,
even new entities.
If you're going to be pushing the
truth and you don't know about those
new entities or new properties,
other clients are potentially
going to lose data.
In fact, we don't even have to be in a
situation where a scheme has
been extended in this way.
Some clients don't sync all the
properties of the public schemas.
So you may only sync
a subset of something,
and if your client was
able to push the truth,
again, another client like Address
Book might lose data.
So really pushing the
truth is a safe operation,
only a certain subset of cases.
It also is probably something
that we always would want to do.
We always would want to be
a user-initiated action.
So for these reasons,
this is why to date we
still have not kind of,
how should I say, accepted or decided to
implement this as a public API.
Okay, now to the part of the talk that
gives you some insight into some
of the problems and some of the
more key concepts that you are
probably going to be interested in.
So, sync seems simple, and in fact it is.
Even if you use the most
procedural API that we have,
you can probably do 80% of what you need
to do with a very small amount of code,
and it's going to work for the most part.
There are some exceptions, however.
And one of them is your records sometimes
duplicate for inexplicable reasons.
Sometimes the sync fails.
And interestingly,
if you were to Google on
one of these errors,
we get there's quite a
number of hits on them.
Sometimes your records disappear
and you have no reason why.
Sometimes your records appear
in meaningless conflicts.
Sometimes your client actually
doesn't want to be in sync.
Now, I'm going to talk about
that a little bit right now,
but I'm actually going to
not talk about it in general.
But suffice it to say,
if you have a client that really
doesn't want to be in sync with
the truth or in sync with what Sync
Services thinks you should be in,
you need to take extra special
care that you exercise all
of the corner cases in sync.
And in particular,
you can end up in situations where
you have two clients that are
presumably in sync and the end
user looks at them and they're not.
Okay, let's think about some things.
To me, these are some of the
key concepts that are,
that as developers of sync clients,
Everyone should master,
or at least understand,
before they actually get about
to the task of writing code.
So the negotiated sync modes.
We're going to go through fast,
slow versus refresh
and pulling the truth.
We're going to talk about
identity in sync services.
We've talked a little bit about schemas,
and we're going to talk a little
bit more about them as well.
[Transcript missing]
is a member of the
Google team at Microsoft.
He's the founder of the
Google Cloud Platform.
is doing in a sync session
should really be what the sync
server expects your client to do.
In particular,
you both have to agree on fast, slow,
refresh, or pulling the truth.
Another point to keep in mind is
that at any point in a sync session,
a session can be cancelled,
and that might actually affect
the next mode of the sync.
Some fallout of bad negotiations.
These are problems that I've helped
clients debug over and over again.
The server thinks you're fast syncing.
You push everything with
different local identifiers.
Your records are going to duplicate.
The server thinks you're slow syncing,
but you fast sync.
All your records will be deleted.
You might say, "Well,
how can my client ever get into this
situation?" There's actually a couple of
common patterns where this can happen.
The most common being that somehow your
backing store has been restored somehow.
Maybe you've restored it from a backup,
maybe you have an unarchived facility,
in which case it's very likely
that your client is now going to
be in a different state than what
Sync Services thinks you're in.
To handle some of these,
we actually provide API in
the form of Sync Anchors.
I'm not going to go into
the specifics of that,
but I suggest that if you do
have that kind of feature,
you might consider using Sync Anchors.
This is actually a pretty accurate
finite state diagram of sync services.
Basically, the main line is you start,
you negotiate, you push, you mingle,
and you pull.
There's some pauses in between this.
And from any one of those states,
you can either finish it cleanly
or the sync can get canceled.
So, what this diagram shows
is what can happen to you,
what is your next sync mode going to be
as far as the server is concerned if the
sync fails to complete for some reason.
And what's interesting is that if you're
refresh syncing or slow syncing and you
get to the point that you're about to be,
that you're going to be mingled or
you're being mingled by the sync server,
your next sync is actually
going to be a fast sync.
That means that Sync Services is
going to remember the changes that
you've pushed previously even though
the sync was cancelled on you.
So I want to talk a little bit about
slow syncing versus refresh syncing.
This is a common, a source of confusion
for many developers.
First of all,
from the client's perspective,
slow syncing and refresh
syncing looks the same.
It's basically the sync server will
tell your client that you need to push
every single record that you know about.
The nuance between the refresh and the
slow sync is really on the server side.
The sync client, at any point, can say,
"You know what?
I actually want a refresh or slow sync.
I want to push all my records."
And that's what those two
methods on iSync Session do.
So, on the client side,
the client can tell the server that
it really wants to do a refresh.
One of the fathers of sync services
likened this to negotiation of rock,
paper, scissors.
Slow beats fast, refresh beats slow,
and pull the truth beats refresh.
Until we pointed out to him that that
was only true if paper didn't beat rock.
Okay, I still haven't gotten to what the
difference is between a slow and refresh,
and I'll do that right now.
So a slow sync is a facility or is an
aid that we give to the users of sync
services where based on past syncs,
we generate,
we figure out the differences to send
from your client to the sync server.
So it's very possible, for example,
if you slow sync and you have no
changes at all in your backing store,
that we will send absolutely
no changes to the sync server.
But to do that, we actually have to know
what you synced before.
On the other hand,
a refresh sync is as if this is
the first time you've synced.
And all of the past information,
assuming you have synced before,
is going to get discarded.
Now, what is that past
information that we discard?
Your local identifiers.
It's probably once a month or
maybe a little bit less frequently,
I'm asked the question,
"Why can't you remember my
local identifiers if I'm
refresh syncing?" And the
The main reason for that is that,
and I'm going to get
into identity in a bit,
is that the local identifier
is how your client specifies
a record to sync services.
A refresh is a brand new sync,
so we don't know anything
about your records.
We also will discard on a refresh sync
all of the previous record values and
record specific client information.
There's a fairly handy method on iSync
Session which allows you to associate
an arbitrary bit of information
with a specific record that your
client can use as it deems necessary.
So what are some of the
consequences of refresh syncing?
Well, the biggest
The consequence is that if you've
been syncing and you now refresh sync,
and since and between the time of your
last sync and your next refresh sync,
some other clients deleted some records,
those deletes are going to get lost.
In certain situations,
records may duplicate.
The duplication can happen
for a couple of reasons.
One reason is that once
you've actually synced,
you're free to change the
identity keys of a record.
But once you change identity keys and
you start again and you refresh sync,
those records are no longer
going to identity match.
Finally, it's a little bit more
CPU and I/O intensive.
Negotiating the sync session
correctly as far as pulling the truth.
Basically,
the only thing I want to say here
is that you really don't want to
delete your backing store until,
at a minimum,
prepare to pull changes returns yes,
but you probably don't want to
delete it until you've actually
pulled all the changes and
written out your backing store.
Okay, identity.
Identity Keys are only used
when a record is first pushed
by a client to sync services.
After that,
we don't care what the Identity Keys are.
It's used by the Mingler to match
records that are pushed anew.
And it matches those records against
records pushed by other clients.
And other is emphasized here
because it's perfectly legal.
In fact, it's a feature that a client
can duplicate records.
Sometimes developers are kind of
surprised by the fact that we,
in fact, allow them to duplicate records.
So, how does identity matching work?
We require all of the identity
properties to be equal,
including the null values.
So, for example,
Sara Bellum from Synaptic Insights
and Sara Bellum with no company name
on Leopard would not identity match.
Now with compound identity
properties on Snow Leopard,
these two records will identity
match and there'll be a
conflict on the company name.
As I said,
once a record is identity matched,
or it's pushed or it's pulled
and a client accepts that record,
it is from that point on,
that record is identified to sync
services by the local identifier
that the client specifies.
It's used both in fast
syncing or slow syncing.
And I realize in this presentation
I didn't talk at all about fast syncing.
In many ways, fast syncing is,
from the point of view of sync services,
is just like slow syncing.
Slow syncing requires the
client to push all records,
but internally we're generating
all of the deltas that we then
feed off to the actual sync server.
Fast syncing gives the client an
ability to optimize this process,
and we actually do that in two ways.
One is, is there's API where a client
can push in the full record,
and then sync services will generate the
deltas of that record that are passed.
We also give another
capability to the client,
and that is they can actually
generate the deltas themselves and
pass those on to the sync server.
And that's the most optimized
form of fast syncing.
The Local Identifier is any
string your client wants it to be.
There's a couple of unspoken
invariants about Local Identifiers.
They have to always be
associated with the same record.
And you can't reuse them.
Once you've associated with a record,
it has to be consistently
associated with that record.
Unless you're refresh syncing
or that record has been deleted.
If you don't do this and somehow get
confused about what the Local ID is,
there's a bunch of different runtime
errors that you can run into.
You might ask, "Well,
how can you ever get into
this situation?" Well,
there are clients, for example,
that have used the row ID out of a
database to be their Local Identifier.
And if that database
ever got repopulated,
the row ID would change,
but they were still continuing to
use that row ID as a Local ID in,
say, a slow sync.
This causes problems.
Internally,
we generate a global ID that is
associated with the local ID of
every client that syncs that record.
Sometimes clients really want to
get a handle on that global ID,
and in particular clients
that filter do this.
We recommend that if you're in such
a situation and you need the global
ID of a record that you can get,
for example, via the snapshot,
that you look into using
the record reference,
iSync record reference
object that we provide.
Okay, this is one of the more common
errors that are encountered.
And I want to talk a little bit
about how that error happens.
Sometimes it's our fault.
And we've had this because
of filtering issues,
as I've said before.
We've had this because of the way
that we sometimes refresh sync.
The entire API of Sync
Services is entity-based.
One of the things that's unique about
Sync Services is that we actually sync
relationships between other entities.
It's that relationship and the -- it's
those relationships that are important.
And it's those relationships in the
context of refresh sync that sometimes
cause those kinds of problems.
However, that's not the most
common reason for this.
I want to walk through
a very typical example,
and it has to do with the
ordering that a record is pulled.
So imagine you have a client.
There's a record X,
it has a relationship R,
and it pulls a value for that
relationship R with those funny-looking
wids that are the generated local
IDs that we hand back to a client.
It pulls X, it saves that record out,
and then it pulls the
reference to that relationship.
And it decides to remap that local
ID to some other arbitrary string.
In a future sync,
if that client pushes X with the
relationship with those local IDs,
the original local IDs that were pulled,
you'll run into the exact same problem.
So how do you work around that?
You can order how your
client pulls the changes.
That's one possibility,
although sometimes that doesn't work.
You can also keep an
unaccepted record map.
But in particular,
you need to patch that back
relationship one way or the other.
One of the helpful methods that many
clients use here is the set client
info for record with identifier method.
Okay, miscellaneous tips.
Type your properties and relationships.
Use exclude from DCA and
ignore conflicts.
And if you're syncing
to a back end which is,
or records which are
back ended on a server,
consider not syncing the record itself,
but information about
how to access the server.
For example,
CalDAV accounts or CalDAV calendars
are synced with a CalDAV account
object so that other computers know
how to access the back end server.
An example where we don't do
that is subscribed calendars.
MobileMe sync performance issues.
We've had certain clients or
experienced certain cases where
sometimes a sync client wants to
basically sync a big object graph.
They can do that by archiving
it out to a data object.
And this data object or this object
graph maybe is pretty volatile.
And maybe it's large.
Maybe it's a megabyte or more.
If this object graph is volatile,
and let's say only a byte or two changes
every time that object is updated
and it gets synced every time with a
megabyte object graph into sync services,
that means that .Mac is going to
get loaded with a lot of changes
that are each a megabyte long.
You may want to consider restructuring
your schema to optimize that.
You should also write a sync client and,
if at all possible,
fast sync as opposed to slow sync.
And even better is to trickle sync.
The difference between fast syncing
and trickle syncing really has to
do with fast syncing specifies how
you're syncing with sync services.
Trickle syncing has to do with that
you actually sync your changes as
they occur in your application.
I think it was mentioned by Andy,
in Snow Leopard we're going to be,
MobileMe client is going
to start trickle syncing.
So this will actually help propagate
your data if your client trickle syncs
to other machines when the data changes.
In Leopard we added a performance
boost that you could add to
your client description P-list,
which had to do with whether or not
your client formats relationships.
If you don't know what I mean when I say
if your client formats relationships,
well in Snow Leopard it doesn't
matter because we're going to assume
your client doesn't format them.
In Leopard we added a keyword
which could indicate that you
didn't format your relationships.
And just to be clear,
to support many kind of older phones,
it's often the case that the values that
are pulled by a client are not the values
that they actually are able to keep.
So you might have a client that has
a relationship to phone numbers.
It pulls 10 phone numbers,
but the device can only store three.
So we give you the ability to
indicate which three of those
10 you've actually saved away.
And again,
this is just added to your P-list
of your client description.
We're trying to improve logging.
For those of you who've been
sync services developers,
we log a lot of information
when you turn it on.
We also used to log personal information,
which we now don't as of 10.5.3,
but sometimes you actually want to see
that the actual data that's being synced,
and there's now a default that
you can use to turn that back on.
The Sync Respecter is a developer
tool that all developers
of sync clients should use.
At a minimum, you should use it to put
your client through the ropes
and make it refresh sync,
make it pull the truth,
make it push the truth,
and make sure that your client
actually handles all those cases.
It's a fully supported developer tool.
Andy wanted me to put that in.
I think that means that
if there are any bugs,
I have to fix it.
Syncing is also scriptable.
You can script it in Perl,
you can script it in Ruby,
you can script it in
other languages as well.
I think I already mentioned SyncRespector
allows you to test it in different modes,
you can test with other clients.
It also provides a user interface
for you to set debugging defaults,
go into the truth,
see what your records are there.
It's really a pretty indispensable tool
when you're developing a sync client.
So we have a pretty active dev list.
We actually are fairly responsive
to questions that come onto it.
So we encourage you,
if you're writing a sync client,
to post questions.
There's a number of developers
that actually answer the questions,
so we don't have to,
which is always a good thing.
I'm not going to read this poem,
but a sync intern of ours describes
sync pretty nicely in this poem.
There's one bit of it that I
is rather funny, which is the last line,
which says, "To sync, perchance to dream,
aye, there's the rub.
For in that sync of mobile me,
what records may come."